---
title: "24 in '24"
date: 2024-01-03T09:17:41-06:00
tags: [life]
summary: A list of 24 goals I have for the year.
toc: false
draft: false
---

Welcome back, fellow adventurers. As we dive headfirst into a new year, I can't help but feel a surge of excitement and anticipation for the possibilities that await. 

2024 is poised to be a year of growth, new experiences, and thrilling challenges. To kick things off, I thought it'd be fun to publish a list of 24 goals and projects I'm aiming to tackle in 2024. I'll come back occasionally and cross them off the list as they're completed.

In no particular order:

1. **Average Reading 25 Pages Per Day**: Rather than set a book goal, I think it's more reasonable to set a page target. The point is, I want to set a pace and consistently keep up with my reading list.

1. **Maintain My Personal Financial System**: Continue consistently tracking and improve the financial tracking system I developed in 2023.

1. **Buy a House**: Since I've improved my financial position, I'm now looking to buy my first home. I want to close and move in by the end of spring.

1. **Visit Three New Places**: Satiate my travel bug by exploring three new destinations.

1. **Conquer a Challenging Hiking Trail**: Take on a demanding hiking trail to test my physical and mental endurance.

1. **Learn Fly Fishing**: Embark on a new outdoor adventure by learning the art of fly fishing.

1. **Complete a New Hardware Project**: Hone my tech skills and learn a new technology. I'm particularly interested in the Raspberry Pi Pico W and Circuit Python.

1. **Complete a DIY Home Improvement Project**: Channel my inner handyman and take on a DIY home improvement project in my soon-to-be first house.

1. **Complete a Leatherworking Project**: I came into some leatherworking tools recently. I want to learn the basics of leathercraft and complete a basic project.

1. **Explore a National Park**: Discover the natural wonders of a new national park and revel in the beauty of the great outdoors.

1. **Publish 52 Blog Posts**: Be consistent about publishing thoughts and interesting stuff here on the site at least weekly.

1. **Learn a New Language**: Challenge myself by picking up the basics of a new language. Being in South Louisiana I grew up learning French, so now I'm targeting Spanish.

1. **Take a Cooking Class**: Expand my culinary skills by enrolling in a cooking class and mastering a new cuisine.

1. **Cycle Over 1500 Miles**: In 2023 I developed a cycling practice as my primary exercise (I broke 1000 miles!). This year, I want to develop that habit and increase my stamina and distance.

1. **Attain My Goal Weight**: Continue getting back into shape and reach my goal weight this year. (I'm already over halfway there)

1. **Track and Improve Nutrition**: Related to the previous goal, I want to prep and cook using more whole foods and avoid processed and fast foods.

1. **Plan a Solo Backpacking Trip**: Embark on a solo backpacking adventure to embrace self-discovery and solitude in nature.

1. **Become a Master Naturalist**: Bolster my knowledge of the natural world and local ecosystem by becoming a certified Master Naturalist.

1. **Take a Philosophy Course**: Most of my personal reading these days leans toward philosophy, so I want to take a more formal course to build a proper foundation in the discipline.

1. **Start a Research Project**: Channel my interest in learning and research into a personal project that fuels curiosity and knowledge.

1. **Practice Mindfulness Daily**: Incorporate daily mindfulness practices to enhance well-being and reduce stress. Even for a few minutes per day.

1. **Perform a Digital Detox**: Take a fortnight completely unplugged and detached from the digital world.

1. **Spend a Day Volunteering**: Always a good way to give back to the community.

1. **Celebrate Achievements with a Memorable Trip**: Cap off the year by celebrating my accomplishments with a memorable and well-deserved trip.

Here's to a year filled with exciting new experiences and the joy of crossing off each goal from the list. 

How do you plan to challenge yourself for this year?